Then I had another thought: Physics disgusts me a little bit now, but I used to enjoy doing physics. Why did I enjoy it? I used to play with it. I used to do whatever I felt like doing-it did not have to do with whether it was important for the development of nuclear physics, but whether it was interesting and amusing for me to play with. When I was in high school, I would see water running out of a faucet growing narrower, and wonder if I could figure out what determines that curve. I found it was rather easy to do. I did not have to do it; it was not important for the future of science; somebody else had already done it. That did not make any difference. I would invent things and play with things for my own entertainment.

So I got this new attitude. Now that I am burned out and I will never accomplish anything, I have got this nice position at the university teaching classes which I rather enjoy, and just like I read the ARABIAN NIGHTS for pleasure, I am going to play with physics, whenever I want to, without worrying about any importance whatsoever.

Within a week I was in the cafeteria and some guy, fooling around, throws a plate in the air. As the plate went up in the air I saw it wobble, and I noticed the red medallion of Cornell on the plate going around. It was pretty obvious to me that the medallion went around faster than the wobbling.

I had nothing to do, so I start to figure out the motion of the rotating plate. I discover that when the angle is very slight, the medallion rotates twice as fast as the wobble rate – two to one. It came out of a complicated equation! Then I thought, "Is there some way I can see in a more fundamental way, by looking at the forces or the dynamics, why is it two to one?"

I do not remember how I did it, but I ultimately worked out what the motion of the mass particles is, and how all the accelerations balance to make it come out two to one.

I still remember going to Hans Bethe and saying, "Hey, Hans! I noticed something interesting. Here the plate goes around so, and the reason it is two to one is..." and I showed him the accelerations.

He says, "Feynman, that is pretty interesting, but what is the importance of it? Why are you doing it?"

"Hah!" I say. "There is no importance whatsoever. I am just doing it for the fun of it." His reaction did not discourage me; I had made up my mind I was going to enjoy physics and do whatever I liked.

I went on to work out equations of wobbles. Then I thought about how electron orbits start to move in relativity. Then there is the Dirac Equation in electrodynamics. And then quantum electrodynamics. And before I knew it (it was a very short time) I was playing, working, really with the same old problem that I loved so much, that I had stopped working on when I went to Los Alamos: my thesis-type problems; all those old-fashioned, wonderful things.

It was effortless. It was easy to play with these things. It was like uncorking a bottle: Everything flowed out effortlessly. I almost tried to resist it! There was no importance to what I was doing, but ultimately there was. The diagrams and the whole business that I got the Nobel Prize for came from that piddling around with the wobbling plate.

From "Surely you are joking, Mr. Feynman"
